README.md, before:

![Erlang CI](https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/workflows/CI/badge.svg)
![Status - Alpha](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-alpha-red)

<a href="https://electric-sql.com">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
        srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-light-trans.svg"
    />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
        srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-black.svg"
    />
    <img alt="ElectricSQL logo"
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-black.svg"
    />
  </picture>
</a>

# Electric

This is the replication service for [ElectricSQL](https://electric-sql.com).

It's an Elixir application that integrates with Postgres over logical replication and Satellite (ElectricSQL's client-side replication component that works with SQLite) via a web socket interface.

## Pre-reqs

Docker and [Elixir 1.14 compiled with Erlang 24](https://thinkingelixir.com/install-elixir-using-asdf/).

## Usage

See the [Makefile](./Makefile) for usage. Setup using:

```sh
make deps compile
```

Run the dependencies using:

```sh
make start_dev_env
```

Run the tests:

```sh
make tests
```

And then develop using:

```sh
make shell
```

This runs active-active replication with Postgres over logical replication and exposes a protocol buffers API over web sockets on `localhost:5133`.

For example to write some data into one of the Postgres instances:

```sh
docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD=password electric_db_a_1 psql -h 127.0.0.1 -U electric -d electric
```

There's a second instance, `electric-db_b_1`, if you want to see data being replicated between them.

Note that you can tear down all the containers with:

```sh
make stop_dev_env
```

### Running the release or docker container

The Electric application is configured using environment variables. Everything that doesn't have a default is required to run.

| Variable                      | Default                     | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `VAXINE_HOST`                 |                             | Host of Vaxine instance to connect to                                                                                                                         |
| `VAXINE_API_PORT`             | `8087`                      | Port for the regular DB API on Vaxine instance                                                                                                                |
| `VAXINE_REPLICATION_PORT`     | `8088`                      | Port for the replication API on Vaxine instance                                                                                                               |
| `VAXINE_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT`   | `5000`                      | (ms) Timeout waiting while connecting to a Vaxine instance                                                                                                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `ELECTRIC_HOST`               |                             | Host of this electric instance for the reverse connection from Postgres. It has to be accessible from postgres instances listed in the `CONNECTORS`           |
| `CONNECTORS`                  | `""`                        | Semicolon-separated list of Postgres connection strings for PG instances that will be part of the cluster                                                     |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `POSTGRES_REPLICATION_PORT`   | `5433`                      | Port for connections from PG instances as replication followers                                                                                               |
| `STATUS_PORT`                 | `5050`                      | Port to expose health and status API endpoint                                                                                                                 |
| `WEBSOCKET_PORT`              | `5133`                      | Port to expose the `/ws` path for the replication over the websocket                                                                                          |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `OFFSET_STORAGE_FILE`         | `./offset_storage_data.dat` | Path to the file storing the mapping between connected instances and offsets in Vaxine WAL. Should be persisted between Electric restarts.                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `MIGRATIONS_DIR`              |                             | Directory to read the migration SQL files from (see below)                                                                                                    |
| `MIGRATIONS_FILE_NAME_SUFFIX` | `/postgres.sql`             | Suffix that is appended to the migration name when looking for the migration file                                                                             |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY`  | `""`                        | Authentication token signing/validation secret key. See below.                                                                                                |
| `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS`  | `""`                        | Cluster ID which acts as the issuer for the authentication JWT. See below.                                                                                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `GLOBAL_CLUSTER_ID`           |                             | Identifier of the cluster within the Electric cloud. When running locally, you can use any string                                                             |
| `ELECTRIC_INSTANCE_ID`        |                             | Unique identifier of this Electric instance when running in the cluster. When running locally, you can use any string                                         |
| `ELECTRIC_REGIONAL_ID`        |                             | Shared identifier for multiple Electric instance that connect to the same Vaxine DC when running in the cluster. When running locally, you can use any string |

**Authentication**

By default, in dev mode, electric uses insecure authentication. This just
accepts a user id as the authentication token and authorizes the connection as
that user.

Token based authentication requires a signed JWT token with a `user_id` claim,
and a valid issuer.

To turn on token-based authentication in dev mode and when running in
production, set the following environment variables:

- `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY` - Some random string used as the HMAC signing
  key. Must be at least 32 bytes long.

- `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS` - The JWT issuer (the `iss` field in the JWT).

You can generate a valid token using these configuration values by running `mix electric.gen.token`, e.g:

```shell
$ export SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY=00000000000000000000000000000000
$ export SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS=my.electric.server
$ mix electric.gen.token my_user my_other_user
```

The generated token(s) must be passed in the `token` field of the `SatAuthReq`
protocol message.

For them to work, you must run the electric server configured with the same
`SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY` and `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS` set.

## Migrations

When running locally, you can apply migrations directly using `make apply_migration`. First make sure you've [built your migrations](https://electric-sql.com/docs/usage/migrations) in your application folder, then set the `MIGRATIONS_DIR` environment variable to the path to the migrations folder:

```sh
export MIGRATIONS_DIR='../path/to/migrations'
```

Now (re)run the electric service (with the env var set):

```sh
make shell
```

You can now apply named migrations using:

```sh
make apply_migration name=$MIGRATION_NAME
```

Where `MIGRATION_NAME` is the name of a migration folder created using [`electric migrations new`](https://electric-sql.com/docs/usage/migrations#2-schema-evolution), for example:

```sh
make apply_migration name=1666288253_create_items
```

## OSX

Note that if, when running on OSX, you get errors like:

```
could not connect to the publisher: connection to server at \"host.docker.internal\" (192.168.65.2), port 5433 failed
```

You may need to adjust your docker networking or run Electric within docker. To run within Docker, you can build the docker image locally:

```sh
make docker-build
```

And then run with the right env vars, e.g.:

```sh
docker run -it -p "5433:5433" -p "5133:5133" \
    -e "VAXINE_HOST=host.docker.internal"
    -e "ELECTRIC_HOST=host.docker.internal"
    -e "CONNECTORS=pg1=postgresql://electric:password@host.docker.internal:54321/electric;pg2=postgresql://electric:password@host.docker.internal:54322/electric" \
    docker.io/library/electric:local-build
```

## Contributing

See the [Community Guidelines](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta) including the [Guide to Contributing](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Contributor License Agreement](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta/blob/main/CLA.md).

## Support

We have an [open community Discord](https://discord.gg/B7kHGwDcbj). If you’re interested in the project, please come and say hello and let us know if you have any questions or need any help or support getting things running.

Commit message:

docs: make README a more generic project entrypoint. (#93)

README.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License - Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-blue)](main/LICENSE)
![Status - Alpha](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-alpha-red)
[![Chat - Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/933657521581858818?color=5969EA&label=discord)](https://discord.gg/B7kHGwDcbj)

<a href="https://electric-sql.com">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
        srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-light-trans.svg"
    />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
        srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-black.svg"
    />
    <img alt="ElectricSQL logo"
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/electric-sql/meta/main/identity/ElectricSQL-logo-black.svg"
    />
  </picture>
</a>

# ElectricSQL

Local-first. Electrified.

You develop local-first apps. We provide the cloud sync. Without changing your database or your code.

## What is ElectricSQL?

ElectricSQL is a local-first SQL system that adds active-active replication and reactive queries to SQLite and Postgres. Use it to make local-first apps that feel instant, work offline and sync via the cloud.

## Getting started

- [Quickstart](https://electric-sql.com/docs/usage/quickstart)
- [Examples](https://github.com/electric-sql/examples)
- [Documentation](https://electric-sql.com/docs)

## Repo structure

This repo contains the core backend services that proovide ElectricSQL's cloud sync. It's an Elixir application that integrates with Postgres over logical replication and SQLite via a Protobuf web socket protocol.

See also:

- [electric-sql/typescript-client](https://github.com/electric-sql/typescript-client) Typescript client library for local-first application development
- [electric-sql/vaxine](https://github.com/electric-sql/vaxine) geo-distributed rich-CRDT database based on AntidoteDB
- [electric-sql/cli](https://github.com/electric-sql/cli) command line interface (CLI) tool to manage config and migrations

## Pre-reqs

Docker and [Elixir 1.14 compiled with Erlang 24](https://thinkingelixir.com/install-elixir-using-asdf/).

## Usage

See the [Makefile](./Makefile) for usage. Setup using:

```sh
make deps compile
```

Run the dependencies using:

```sh
make start_dev_env
```

Run the tests:

```sh
make tests
```

And then develop using:

```sh
make shell
```

This runs active-active replication with Postgres over logical replication and exposes a protocol buffers API over web sockets on `localhost:5133`.

For example to write some data into one of the Postgres instances:

```sh
docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD=password electric_db_a_1 psql -h 127.0.0.1 -U electric -d electric
```

There's a second instance, `electric-db_b_1`, if you want to see data being replicated between them.

Note that you can tear down all the containers with:

```sh
make stop_dev_env
```

### Running the release or docker container

The Electric application is configured using environment variables. Everything that doesn't have a default is required to run.

| Variable                      | Default                     | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `VAXINE_HOST`                 |                             | Host of Vaxine instance to connect to                                                                                                                         |
| `VAXINE_API_PORT`             | `8087`                      | Port for the regular DB API on Vaxine instance                                                                                                                |
| `VAXINE_REPLICATION_PORT`     | `8088`                      | Port for the replication API on Vaxine instance                                                                                                               |
| `VAXINE_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT`   | `5000`                      | (ms) Timeout waiting while connecting to a Vaxine instance                                                                                                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `ELECTRIC_HOST`               |                             | Host of this electric instance for the reverse connection from Postgres. It has to be accessible from postgres instances listed in the `CONNECTORS`           |
| `CONNECTORS`                  | `""`                        | Semicolon-separated list of Postgres connection strings for PG instances that will be part of the cluster                                                     |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `POSTGRES_REPLICATION_PORT`   | `5433`                      | Port for connections from PG instances as replication followers                                                                                               |
| `STATUS_PORT`                 | `5050`                      | Port to expose health and status API endpoint                                                                                                                 |
| `WEBSOCKET_PORT`              | `5133`                      | Port to expose the `/ws` path for the replication over the websocket                                                                                          |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `OFFSET_STORAGE_FILE`         | `./offset_storage_data.dat` | Path to the file storing the mapping between connected instances and offsets in Vaxine WAL. Should be persisted between Electric restarts.                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `MIGRATIONS_DIR`              |                             | Directory to read the migration SQL files from (see below)                                                                                                    |
| `MIGRATIONS_FILE_NAME_SUFFIX` | `/postgres.sql`             | Suffix that is appended to the migration name when looking for the migration file                                                                             |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY`  | `""`                        | Authentication token signing/validation secret key. See below.                                                                                                |
| `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS`  | `""`                        | Cluster ID which acts as the issuer for the authentication JWT. See below.                                                                                    |
|                               |                             |                                                                                                                                                               |
| `GLOBAL_CLUSTER_ID`           |                             | Identifier of the cluster within the Electric cloud. When running locally, you can use any string                                                             |
| `ELECTRIC_INSTANCE_ID`        |                             | Unique identifier of this Electric instance when running in the cluster. When running locally, you can use any string                                         |
| `ELECTRIC_REGIONAL_ID`        |                             | Shared identifier for multiple Electric instance that connect to the same Vaxine DC when running in the cluster. When running locally, you can use any string |

**Authentication**

By default, in dev mode, electric uses insecure authentication. This just
accepts a user id as the authentication token and authorizes the connection as
that user.

Token based authentication requires a signed JWT token with a `user_id` claim,
and a valid issuer.

To turn on token-based authentication in dev mode and when running in
production, set the following environment variables:

- `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY` - Some random string used as the HMAC signing
  key. Must be at least 32 bytes long.

- `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS` - The JWT issuer (the `iss` field in the JWT).

You can generate a valid token using these configuration values by running `mix electric.gen.token`, e.g:

```shell
$ export SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY=00000000000000000000000000000000
$ export SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS=my.electric.server
$ mix electric.gen.token my_user my_other_user
```

The generated token(s) must be passed in the `token` field of the `SatAuthReq`
protocol message.

For them to work, you must run the electric server configured with the same
`SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_KEY` and `SATELLITE_AUTH_SIGNING_ISS` set.

## Migrations

When running locally, you can apply migrations directly using `make apply_migration`. First make sure you've [built your migrations](https://electric-sql.com/docs/usage/migrations) in your application folder, then set the `MIGRATIONS_DIR` environment variable to the path to the migrations folder:

```sh
export MIGRATIONS_DIR='../path/to/migrations'
```

Now (re)run the electric service (with the env var set):

```sh
make shell
```

You can now apply named migrations using:

```sh
make apply_migration name=$MIGRATION_NAME
```

Where `MIGRATION_NAME` is the name of a migration folder created using [`electric migrations new`](https://electric-sql.com/docs/usage/migrations#2-schema-evolution), for example:

```sh
make apply_migration name=1666288253_create_items
```

## OSX

Note that if, when running on OSX, you get errors like:

```
could not connect to the publisher: connection to server at \"host.docker.internal\" (192.168.65.2), port 5433 failed
```

You may need to adjust your docker networking or run Electric within docker. To run within Docker, you can build the docker image locally:

```sh
make docker-build
```

And then run with the right env vars, e.g.:

```sh
docker run -it -p "5433:5433" -p "5133:5133" \
    -e "VAXINE_HOST=host.docker.internal"
    -e "ELECTRIC_HOST=host.docker.internal"
    -e "CONNECTORS=pg1=postgresql://electric:password@host.docker.internal:54321/electric;pg2=postgresql://electric:password@host.docker.internal:54322/electric" \
    docker.io/library/electric:local-build
```

## Contributing

See the [Community Guidelines](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta) including the [Guide to Contributing](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Contributor License Agreement](https://github.com/electric-sql/meta/blob/main/CLA.md).

## Support

We have an [open community Discord](https://discord.gg/B7kHGwDcbj). If you’re interested in the project, please come and say hello and let us know if you have any questions or need any help or support getting things running.
