docs/deployment/fly.md, before:

---
title: "Fly.io"
description: >-
  Deploy app servers close to your users.
sidebar_position: 40
---

You can deploy ElectricSQL to [Fly.io](https://fly.io).

The app config needs to include an `http_service` with internal port `5133` and a TCP service for Electric's [migrations proxy](../usage/data-modelling/migrations#migrations-proxy) that listens on port `65432` by default.

The environment variables used by Electric are described in <DocPageLink path="api/service" />.

## Postgres with logical replication

Before deploying Electric, you'll need a Postgres database (with logical replication enabled) hosted somewhere Electric can connect to. See the next section if you intend to use Fly Postgres with Electric.

Alternatively, many other managed database providers support logical replication, see <DocPageLink path="usage/installation/postgres#hosting" /> for some options. Retrieve your database's connection URI with password included from your provider and use it as the value of the `DATABASE_URL` variable when setting up the app.

### Fly Postgres

If you have an instance of [Fly Postgres](https://fly.io/docs/postgres/) that you want Electric to connect to, make sure it's configured with `wal_level=logical`:

```shell
$ fly pg -a <pg app name> config update --wal-level logical

NAME     	VALUE  	TARGET VALUE	RESTART REQUIRED
wal-level	replica	logical     	true

// highlight-next-line
? Are you sure you want to apply these changes? Yes
Performing update...
Update complete!
Please note that some of your changes will require a cluster restart
before they will be applied.
// highlight-next-line
? Restart cluster now? Yes
Identifying cluster role(s)
  Machine 148ed127a03de8: primary
Restarting machine 148ed127a03de8
  Waiting for 148ed127a03de8 to become healthy (started, 1/3)
```

## Deploying Electric

### Configure your Fly app

Save the following snippet into a file named `fly.toml` somewhere on your computer, changing the `app` name as you see fit:

```toml
app = "electric-on-fly-test-app"

[build]
  image = "electricsql/electric"

[env]
  AUTH_MODE = "insecure"
  DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://..."
  # When using Fly Postgres, uncomment the below. Fly Postgres does not
  # support encrypted connections when connecting over its private 6PN network.
  #DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL = "false"
  ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE = "direct_writes"
  PG_PROXY_PASSWORD = "proxy_password"

# The main Internet-facing service of Electric to which clients will be connecting.
[http_service]
  internal_port = 5133
  force_https = true

  [[http_service.checks]]
    interval = "10s"
    timeout = "1s"
    grace_period = "20s"
    method = "GET"
    path = "/api/status"

# Service definition for the migrations proxy that should be accessible on a separate TCP port.
[[services]]
  protocol = "tcp"
  internal_port = 65432

  [[services.ports]]
    port = 65432
    handlers = ["pg_tls"]
```

### Deploy!

In your terminal, navigate to the directory where `fly.toml` is located and run `fly launch --copy-config --ha=false`:

```text
$ fly launch --copy-config --ha=false
An existing fly.toml file was found for app electric-on-fly-test-app
Using build strategies '[the "electricsql/electric" docker image]'.
Remove [build] from fly.toml to force a rescan
Creating app in /path/to/fly-test-app
We're about to launch your app on Fly.io. Here's what you're getting:

Organization: Oleksii Sholik           (fly launch defaults to the personal org)
Name:         electric-on-fly-test-app (from your fly.toml)
Region:       Amsterdam, Netherlands   (this is the fastest region for you)
App Machines: shared-cpu-1x, 1GB RAM   (most apps need about 1GB of RAM)
Postgres:     <none>                   (not requested)
Redis:        <none>                   (not requested)

// highlight-next-line
? Do you want to tweak these settings before proceeding? No
Created app 'electric-on-fly-test-app' in organization 'personal'
Admin URL: https://fly.io/apps/electric-on-fly-test-app
Hostname: electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev
Wrote config file fly.toml
Validating /path/to/fly-test-app/fly.toml
Platform: machines
✓ Configuration is valid

==> Building image
Searching for image 'electricsql/electric' remotely...
image found: img_lj9x4d2z6lxpwo1k

Watch your deployment at https://fly.io/apps/electric-on-fly-test-app/monitoring

// highlight-next-line
? Would you like to allocate dedicated ipv4 and ipv6 addresses now? Yes
Allocated dedicated ipv4: 149.248.198.105
Allocated dedicated ipv6: 2a09:8280:1::37:bcca

This deployment will:
 * create 1 "app" machine

No machines in group app, launching a new machine
Finished launching new machines
-------
 ✔ Machine e784e1e2c642e8 [app] update finished: success
-------

Visit your newly deployed app at https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev/
```

:::caution
We don't _currently_ support multiple running Electric instances connected to the same database. So it's important to override Fly's default behaviour of creating two machines for a new app by passing the `--ha=false` flag to `fly launch`.
:::

Verify app's status using `fly app list`:

```shell
$ fly app list
NAME                    	OWNER   	STATUS  	PLATFORM	LATEST DEPLOY
electric-on-fly-test-app	personal	deployed	machines	1m5s ago
```

Verify that Electric has successfully initialized its connection to Postres:

```shell
$ curl https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev/api/status
Connection to Postgres is up!
```

## Preparing the client app

Let's see how to set up a client app to connect to the Electric sync service we've just deployed. Clone the source code repository to your machine and navigate to the basic example, as explained on [this page](../examples/basic#source-code).

### Apply migrations

Electric can work alongside any tooling you use to manage database migrations with. See the <DocPageLink path="integrations/backend" /> section of the docs for an overview of the most popular frameworks.

In this demo we'll use `@databases/pg-migrations` as it's already included in the basic example. Make sure you have installed all of the dependencies by running `npm install` once.

:::note
Electric requires database migrations to be applied via the migrations proxy, so instead of using the connection URL from `DATABASE_URL`, we build a custom one that includes the configured `PG_PROXY_PASSWORD` and the domain name of the deployed Electric sync service.
:::

Run `npx pg-migrations apply` to apply the migration included in the example to your database:

```shell
$ npx pg-migrations apply \
      --directory db/migrations \
      --database postgresql://postgres:proxy_password@electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev:65432/postgres
Applying 01-create_items_table.sql
Applied 01-create_items_table.sql
1 migrations applied
```

### Generate a type-safe client

Now that the database has one electrified table, we can [generate a type-safe client](../usage/data-access/client.md) from it. Use the same database connection URL as in the previous step but change the username to `prisma` (this is required for the schema introspection to work correctly).

```shell
$ npx electric-sql generate
      --service https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev
      --proxy postgresql://prisma:proxy_password@electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev:65432/postgres
Generating Electric client...
Successfully generated Electric client at: ./src/generated/client
Building migrations...
Successfully built migrations
```

### Start the app!

Now you should have everything ready to start the web app and have it connected to the Electric sync service deployed on Fly.

```shell
$ ELECTRIC_URL='wss://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev' \
  SERVE=true \
  npm run build

> electric-sql-wa-sqlite-example@0.7.0 build
> node copy-wasm-files.js && node builder.js

Your app is running at http://localhost:3001
```

Commit message:

Mention the use case for secrets

docs/deployment/fly.md, after:

---
title: "Fly.io"
description: >-
  Deploy app servers close to your users.
sidebar_position: 40
---

You can deploy ElectricSQL to [Fly.io](https://fly.io).

The app config needs to include an `http_service` with internal port `5133` and a TCP service for Electric's [migrations proxy](../usage/data-modelling/migrations#migrations-proxy) that listens on port `65432` by default.

The environment variables used by Electric are described in <DocPageLink path="api/service" />.

## Postgres with logical replication

Before deploying Electric, you'll need a Postgres database (with logical replication enabled) hosted somewhere Electric can connect to. See the next section if you intend to use Fly Postgres with Electric.

Alternatively, many other managed database providers support logical replication, see <DocPageLink path="usage/installation/postgres#hosting" /> for some options. Retrieve your database's connection URI with password included from your provider and use it as the value of the `DATABASE_URL` variable when setting up the app.

### Fly Postgres

If you have an instance of [Fly Postgres](https://fly.io/docs/postgres/) that you want Electric to connect to, make sure it's configured with `wal_level=logical`:

```shell
$ fly pg -a <pg app name> config update --wal-level logical

NAME     	VALUE  	TARGET VALUE	RESTART REQUIRED
wal-level	replica	logical     	true

// highlight-next-line
? Are you sure you want to apply these changes? Yes
Performing update...
Update complete!
Please note that some of your changes will require a cluster restart
before they will be applied.
// highlight-next-line
? Restart cluster now? Yes
Identifying cluster role(s)
  Machine 148ed127a03de8: primary
Restarting machine 148ed127a03de8
  Waiting for 148ed127a03de8 to become healthy (started, 1/3)
```

## Deploying Electric

### Configure your Fly app

Save the following snippet into a file named `fly.toml` somewhere on your computer, changing the `app` name as you see fit:

```toml
app = "electric-on-fly-test-app"

[build]
  image = "electricsql/electric"

[env]
  AUTH_MODE = "insecure"
  DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://..."
  # When using Fly Postgres, uncomment the below. Fly Postgres does not
  # support encrypted connections when connecting over its private 6PN network.
  #DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL = "false"
  ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE = "direct_writes"
  PG_PROXY_PASSWORD = "proxy_password"

# The main Internet-facing service of Electric to which clients will be connecting.
[http_service]
  internal_port = 5133
  force_https = true

  [[http_service.checks]]
    interval = "10s"
    timeout = "1s"
    grace_period = "20s"
    method = "GET"
    path = "/api/status"

# Service definition for the migrations proxy that should be accessible on a separate TCP port.
[[services]]
  protocol = "tcp"
  internal_port = 65432

  [[services.ports]]
    port = 65432
    handlers = ["pg_tls"]
```

:::info Secrets and environment variables
[Secrets](https://fly.io/docs/reference/secrets/) allow sensitive values, such as credentials, to be passed securely to your Fly app. The secret is encrypted and stored in a vault. It is made available to the app as an environment variable.

We're not using secrets in this example to keep things short and simple. As soon as you're ready to take your Fly app from development to production, make sure to replace the `DATABASE_URL`, `PG_PROXY_PASSWORD` and `AUTH_JWT_KEY` (this latter one is required in the [secure authentication mode](/docs/usage/auth/secure)) environment variables with secrets.
:::

### Deploy!

In your terminal, navigate to the directory where `fly.toml` is located and run `fly launch --copy-config --ha=false`:

```text
$ fly launch --copy-config --ha=false
An existing fly.toml file was found for app electric-on-fly-test-app
Using build strategies '[the "electricsql/electric" docker image]'.
Remove [build] from fly.toml to force a rescan
Creating app in /path/to/fly-test-app
We're about to launch your app on Fly.io. Here's what you're getting:

Organization: Oleksii Sholik           (fly launch defaults to the personal org)
Name:         electric-on-fly-test-app (from your fly.toml)
Region:       Amsterdam, Netherlands   (this is the fastest region for you)
App Machines: shared-cpu-1x, 1GB RAM   (most apps need about 1GB of RAM)
Postgres:     <none>                   (not requested)
Redis:        <none>                   (not requested)

// highlight-next-line
? Do you want to tweak these settings before proceeding? No
Created app 'electric-on-fly-test-app' in organization 'personal'
Admin URL: https://fly.io/apps/electric-on-fly-test-app
Hostname: electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev
Wrote config file fly.toml
Validating /path/to/fly-test-app/fly.toml
Platform: machines
✓ Configuration is valid

==> Building image
Searching for image 'electricsql/electric' remotely...
image found: img_lj9x4d2z6lxpwo1k

Watch your deployment at https://fly.io/apps/electric-on-fly-test-app/monitoring

// highlight-next-line
? Would you like to allocate dedicated ipv4 and ipv6 addresses now? Yes
Allocated dedicated ipv4: 149.248.198.105
Allocated dedicated ipv6: 2a09:8280:1::37:bcca

This deployment will:
 * create 1 "app" machine

No machines in group app, launching a new machine
Finished launching new machines
-------
 ✔ Machine e784e1e2c642e8 [app] update finished: success
-------

Visit your newly deployed app at https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev/
```

:::caution
We don't _currently_ support multiple running Electric instances connected to the same database. So it's important to override Fly's default behaviour of creating two machines for a new app by passing the `--ha=false` flag to `fly launch`.
:::

Verify app's status using `fly app list`:

```shell
$ fly app list
NAME                    	OWNER   	STATUS  	PLATFORM	LATEST DEPLOY
electric-on-fly-test-app	personal	deployed	machines	1m5s ago
```

Verify that Electric has successfully initialized its connection to Postres:

```shell
$ curl https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev/api/status
Connection to Postgres is up!
```

## Preparing the client app

Let's see how to set up a client app to connect to the Electric sync service we've just deployed. Clone the source code repository to your machine and navigate to the basic example, as explained on [this page](../examples/basic#source-code).

### Apply migrations

Electric can work alongside any tooling you use to manage database migrations with. See the <DocPageLink path="integrations/backend" /> section of the docs for an overview of the most popular frameworks.

In this demo we'll use `@databases/pg-migrations` as it's already included in the basic example. Make sure you have installed all of the dependencies by running `npm install` once.

:::note
Electric requires database migrations to be applied via the migrations proxy, so instead of using the connection URL from `DATABASE_URL`, we build a custom one that includes the configured `PG_PROXY_PASSWORD` and the domain name of the deployed Electric sync service.
:::

Run `npx pg-migrations apply` to apply the migration included in the example to your database:

```shell
$ npx pg-migrations apply \
      --directory db/migrations \
      --database postgresql://postgres:proxy_password@electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev:65432/postgres
Applying 01-create_items_table.sql
Applied 01-create_items_table.sql
1 migrations applied
```

### Generate a type-safe client

Now that the database has one electrified table, we can [generate a type-safe client](../usage/data-access/client.md) from it. Use the same database connection URL as in the previous step but change the username to `prisma` (this is required for the schema introspection to work correctly).

```shell
$ npx electric-sql generate
      --service https://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev
      --proxy postgresql://prisma:proxy_password@electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev:65432/postgres
Generating Electric client...
Successfully generated Electric client at: ./src/generated/client
Building migrations...
Successfully built migrations
```

### Start the app!

Now you should have everything ready to start the web app and have it connected to the Electric sync service deployed on Fly.

```shell
$ ELECTRIC_URL='wss://electric-on-fly-test-app.fly.dev' \
  SERVE=true \
  npm run build

> electric-sql-wa-sqlite-example@0.7.0 build
> node copy-wasm-files.js && node builder.js

Your app is running at http://localhost:3001
```
