docs/usage/auth/index.md, before:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_position: 30
---

import { useCurrentSidebarCategory } from '@docusaurus/theme-common'
import AuthModesList from '@site/src/components/AuthModesList'

ElectricSQL provides a JSON Web Token based authentication mechanism for [clients](../data-access/client.md) to authenticate with the [Electric sync service](../installation/service.md).

## Overview

Your application must generate a [valid JWT](./token.md). This must have at least a `user_id` claim, which should be a non-empty string matching the primary key UUID of the authenticated user.

Pass this JWT as a string value to the [`electrify`](../../api/clients/typescript.md) function when [instantiating your client](../data-access/client.md), e.g.:

```tsx
const config = {
  auth: {
    token: '<your JWT>'
  }
}

const { db } = await electrify(conn, schema, config)
```

The client uses the JWT internally to authenticate with the Electric sync service over the [Satellite protocol](../../api/satellite.md). The sync service must be [configured](../../api/service.md) with the correct authentication mode using the `AUTH_MODE` environment variable.

## Modes

You can choose to run ElectricSQL in one of two authentication modes:

<AuthModesList />

Secure mode is designed for production use. It requires a signed JWT generated in a trusted environment (usually your backend web application).

Insecure mode is designed for development or testing. It supports unsigned JWTs that can be generated anywhere, including on the client.

## Best practices

If you have a backend for your app with a cookie-based login session mechanism already in place, we recommend creating an HTTP endpoint to generate one-off tokens for signed-in users and using that to obtain a fresh token before initializing the client.

## Limitations

We don't currently support unauthenticated use.

We don't currently support changing the authentication state on an active replication connection. To work around this, you can either defer instantiating your client until the user authenticates, or you can [stop][1] and [start][2] the [satellite process][3] manually yourself.

[1]: https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/blob/2e8bfdf4992d355d0b1928a097fe406d283303bf/clients/typescript/src/satellite/process.ts#L293
[2]: https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/blob/2e8bfdf4992d355d0b1928a097fe406d283303bf/clients/typescript/src/satellite/process.ts#L167-L170
[3]: https://github.com/electric-sql/electric/blob/2e8bfdf4992d355d0b1928a097fe406d283303bf/clients/typescript/src/satellite/process.ts

Commit message:

docs: clearer docs on data types, constraints and limitations.

docs/usage/auth/index.md, after:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_position: 30
---

import { useCurrentSidebarCategory } from '@docusaurus/theme-common'
import AuthModesList from '@site/src/components/AuthModesList'

ElectricSQL provides a JSON Web Token based authentication mechanism for [clients](../data-access/client.md) to authenticate with the [Electric sync service](../installation/service.md).

## Overview

Your application must generate a [valid JWT](./token.md). This must have at least a `user_id` claim, which should be a non-empty string matching the primary key UUID of the authenticated user.

Pass this JWT as a string value to the [`electrify`](../../api/clients/typescript.md) function when [instantiating your client](../data-access/client.md), e.g.:

```tsx
const config = {
  auth: {
    token: '<your JWT>'
  }
}

const { db } = await electrify(conn, schema, config)
```

The client uses the JWT internally to authenticate with the Electric sync service over the [Satellite protocol](../../api/satellite.md). The sync service must be [configured](../../api/service.md) with the correct authentication mode using the `AUTH_MODE` environment variable.

## Modes

You can choose to run ElectricSQL in one of two authentication modes:

<AuthModesList />

Secure mode is designed for production use. It requires a signed JWT generated in a trusted environment (usually your backend web application).

Insecure mode is designed for development or testing. It supports unsigned JWTs that can be generated anywhere, including on the client.

## Best practices

If you have a backend for your app with a cookie-based login session mechanism already in place, we recommend creating an HTTP endpoint to generate one-off tokens for signed-in users and using that to obtain a fresh token before initializing the client.

<hr className="doc-divider" />

:::caution Work in progress
We don't currently support unauthenticated use, or changing the authentication state on an active replication connection.

[Get in touch](https://discord.electric-sql.com) if this is a blocker or you need help with a workaround.
:::
