docs/usage/data-modelling/constraints.md, before:

---
title: Constraints
description: >-
  Constraints and invariants supported by the ElectricSQL system.
sidebar_position: 50
---

Invariant support is currently limited to referential integrity and not-null constraints. Unique and check constraints are not yet supported.

## Supported

### Referential integrity

ElectricSQL maintains referential integrity of foreign key references. So you can use foreign key relationships in your data model and rely on referential integrity:

```sql
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY
);

CREATE TABLE comments (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY

  post_id UUID REFERENCES(posts.id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);
```

This works even when making writes locally in an offline database. See [Introduction -> Conflict-free offline -> Preserving data integrity](../../intro/offline.md#preserving-data-integrity) and the Rich-CRDT post on [Compensations](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts#compensations) for more information.

:::info
To preserve referential integrity Electric prevents [updates to a table's primary keys](./validation.md#immutable-primary-keys).
:::

### Not-null constraints

ElectricSQL supports [not-null constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#id-1.5.4.6.6) as long as the constraint is defined when creating the column.

I.e.: the not-null constraint must be defined in an [additive migration](./migrations.md#limitations). So the following is supported because creating the table with new columns is *additive*:

```sql
CREATE TABLE items (
  -- implicit non null constraint
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY

  -- explicit non null constraint
  foo TEXT NOT NULL

  -- can be null
  bar TEXT
)
```

Adding a column with a not-null constraint is supported because it's *additive*:

```sql
ALTER TABLE items
  ADD COLUMN baz TEXT NOT NULL;
```

Constraining an existing column by adding a not-null constraint to it is **not supported**:

```sql
-- Not supported
ALTER TABLE items
  ALTER COLUMN bar TEXT NOT NULL;
```

This is not supported because it may invalidate concurrent, in-flight operations. Specifically, writes that were accepted locally with null values would need to be rejected, which would violate the [finality of local writes](../../reference/architecture.md#local-writes).

## Unsupported

Unsupported constraints must be removed from a table before [electrifying](./electrification.md) it.

### Check constraints

ElectricSQL does not currently support [check constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-CHECK-CONSTRAINTS).

### Unique constraints

ElectricSQL does not currently support [unique constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-UNIQUE-CONSTRAINTS).

<hr className="doc-divider" />

:::caution Work in progress
We're working to support:

- unique constraints [using Reservations](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts#reservations)
- *single column* and then *multi-column* check constraints using validation

See [Rich-CRDTs](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts) for more information.
:::

Commit message:

Mention the caveats of adding a new foreign key column

docs/usage/data-modelling/constraints.md, after:

---
title: Constraints
description: >-
  Constraints and invariants supported by the ElectricSQL system.
sidebar_position: 50
---

Invariant support is currently limited to referential integrity and not-null constraints. Unique and check constraints are not yet supported.

## Supported

### Referential integrity

ElectricSQL maintains referential integrity of foreign key references. So you can use foreign key relationships in your data model and rely on referential integrity:

```sql
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY
);

CREATE TABLE comments (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY

  post_id UUID REFERENCES(posts.id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);
```

This works even when making writes locally in an offline database. See [Introduction -> Conflict-free offline -> Preserving data integrity](../../intro/offline.md#preserving-data-integrity) and the Rich-CRDT post on [Compensations](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts#compensations) for more information.

:::info
To preserve referential integrity Electric prevents [updates to a table's primary keys](./validation.md#immutable-primary-keys).
:::

:::caution
When adding a new foreign key column with `ALTER TABLE ... ADD COLUMN` to an electrified table, all active shape subscriptions that include that table need to be updated to also include the table referenced by the new column. This means that the client code has to be updated together with the schema change to ensure that subscriptions keep syncing data to and from the client.
:::

### Not-null constraints

ElectricSQL supports [not-null constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#id-1.5.4.6.6) as long as the constraint is defined when creating the column.

I.e.: the not-null constraint must be defined in an [additive migration](./migrations.md#limitations). So the following is supported because creating the table with new columns is *additive*:

```sql
CREATE TABLE items (
  -- implicit non null constraint
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY

  -- explicit non null constraint
  foo TEXT NOT NULL

  -- can be null
  bar TEXT
)
```

Adding a column with a not-null constraint is supported because it's *additive*:

```sql
ALTER TABLE items
  ADD COLUMN baz TEXT NOT NULL;
```

Constraining an existing column by adding a not-null constraint to it is **not supported**:

```sql
-- Not supported
ALTER TABLE items
  ALTER COLUMN bar TEXT NOT NULL;
```

This is not supported because it may invalidate concurrent, in-flight operations. Specifically, writes that were accepted locally with null values would need to be rejected, which would violate the [finality of local writes](../../reference/architecture.md#local-writes).

## Unsupported

Unsupported constraints must be removed from a table before [electrifying](./electrification.md) it.

### Check constraints

ElectricSQL does not currently support [check constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-CHECK-CONSTRAINTS).

### Unique constraints

ElectricSQL does not currently support [unique constraints](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-UNIQUE-CONSTRAINTS).

<hr className="doc-divider" />

:::caution Work in progress
We're working to support:

- unique constraints [using Reservations](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts#reservations)
- *single column* and then *multi-column* check constraints using validation

See [Rich-CRDTs](/blog/2022/05/03/introducing-rich-crdts) for more information.
:::
