docs/api/service.md, before:

---
title: Sync service
description: >-
  Runtime configuration options for the Electric sync service.
sidebar_position: 20
---

The Electric sync service is an Elixir application that manages [active-active replication](/docs/intro/active-active) between your Postgres database and your [local apps](/docs/intro/local-first).

[![Components and connections](../deployment/_images/components-and-connections.png)](../deployment/_images/components-and-connections.jpg)

The main way to run the sync service is using the [official Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/electricsql/electric). See <DocPageLink path="usage/installation/service" /> for more instructions.

Configuration options are passed as environment variables, e.g.:

```shell
docker run \
    -e "DATABASE_URL=postgresql://..." \
    -e "LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST=..." \
    -e "PG_PROXY_PASSWORD=..." \
    -e "AUTH_JWT_ALG=HS512" \
    -e "AUTH_JWT_KEY=..." \
    -p 5133:5133 \
    -p 5433:5433 \
    electricsql/electric
```

This page documents all the configuration options, including the:

- [core config](#core-config) of `DATABASE_URL`, `HTTP_PORT`, etc.
- [write-to-PG mode](#write-to-pg-mode) with associated networking and [database&nbsp;user&nbsp;permissions](#database-user-permissions)
- [migrations proxy](#migrations-proxy), [authentication](#authentication) and [telemetry](#telemetry)

:::info
For a longer form description of how to successfully deploy the sync service and what needs to connect where, see <DocPageLink path="deployment/concepts" />.
:::

:::caution A note on ports
Your configuration options affect the number and type of ports that need to be exposed. You must always expose the [`HTTP_PORT`](#http_port). Your [write-to-PG mode](#write-to-pg-mode) and [migrations proxy](#migrations-proxy) config then determines whether you need to expose up-to two TCP ports: the [`LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT`](#logical_publisher_port) and [`PG_PROXY_PORT`](#pg_proxy_port) respectively.

In development using Docker you usually want to map all the necessary ports to your host network (`-p 5133:5133` and `-p 5433:5433` in the example above).

In production you must make sure your hosting infrastructure exposes the necessary ports and protocols. If not, you can use the workarounds provided in the form of [direct writes mode](#direct-writes-mode) and the [proxy tunnel](#migrations-proxy).

Again, see <DocPageLink path="deployment/concepts" /> for more information.
:::

## Core config

import EnvVarConfig from '@site/src/components/EnvVarConfig'
import DatabaseRequireSsl from './_DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL.md'
import DatabaseUrl from './_DATABASE_URL.md'
import DatabaseUseIpv6 from './_DATABASE_USE_IPV6.md'
import HttpPort from './_HTTP_PORT.md'


Configure how Electric connects to Postgres and exposes its HTTP/WebSocket API.

### DATABASE_URL

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_URL"
    required={true}
    example="postgresql://user:password@example.com:54321/electric">
  <DatabaseUrl />
</EnvVarConfig>

### DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL"
    defaultValue="true"
    example="false">
  <DatabaseRequireSsl />
</EnvVarConfig>

### DATABASE_USE_IPV6

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_USE_IPV6"
    defaultValue="false"
    example="true">
  <DatabaseUseIpv6 />
</EnvVarConfig>

### HTTP_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="HTTP_PORT"
    defaultValue="5133"
    example="8080">
  <HttpPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

## Write-to-PG mode

Electric writes data to Postgres using one of two modes:

1. [logical replication](#logical-replication-mode)
2. [direct writes](#direct-writes-mode)

:::caution
The mode you choose affects your networking config and [database user permissions](#database-user-permissions).
:::

import ElectricWriteToPgMode from './_ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE"
    defaultValue="logical_replication"
    example="direct_writes">
  <ElectricWriteToPgMode />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Logical replication mode

In `logical_replication` mode, Electric exposes a logical replication publisher service over TCP that speaks the [Logical Streaming Replication Protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/protocol-logical-replication.html).

Postgres connects to Electric on `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST:LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT` and establishes a logical replication subscription to this publisher service. Writes are then streamed in and applied using the logical replication subscription.

```
         | <----------- DATABASE_URL ----------- |
Postgres |                                       | Electric
         | ---- LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST:PORT ---> |
```

:::caution Caution
In logical replication mode:

1. the [database user](#database-user-permissions) that Electric connects to Postgres as must have [`SUPERUSER` status](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/role-attributes.html#ROLE-ATTRIBUTES)
2. Postgres must be able to connect to Electric (i.e.: must be able to establish an outbound TCP connection) on the host and port that you configure

As a result, you must make sure (in terms of networking / firewalls) not only that Postgres is reachable from Electric but also that Electric is reachable from Postgres. And Electric must know its own address, in order to provide it to Postgres when setting up the logical replication publication that allows writes to be replicated into Postgres.
:::

import LogicalPublisherHost from './_LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST.md'
import LogicalPublisherPort from './_LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT.md'

#### LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST

<EnvVarConfig
    name="LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST"
    required={true}
    example="example.com">
  <LogicalPublisherHost />
</EnvVarConfig>

#### LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT"
    defaultValue="5433"
    example="65433">
  <LogicalPublisherPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Direct writes mode

In `direct_writes` mode, Electric writes data to Postgres using a standard interactive client connection. This avoids the need for Postgres to be able to connect to Electric and reduces the permissions required for the database user that Electric connects to Postgres as.

```
Postgres | <----------- DATABASE_URL ----------- | Electric
```

No additional configuration is required for direct writes mode. The `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST` and `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT` variables are not required and are ignored.

:::info Why are there two modes?
Originally (prior to v0.8) all writes to Postgres were made using logical replication.

In [version 0.8](/blog/2023/12/13/electricsql-v0.8-released#from-superuser-to-supabase), Electric added direct writes mode to reduce the database user permissions required and increase compatibility with Postgres hosting providers.

In future, we may deprecate logical replication and consolidate on direct writes. However, logical replication may have performance advantages and, for now, we've kept both modes available while direct writes mode gains maturity and we learn more about the operational characteristics of both modes.
:::

## Database user permissions

The Electric sync service connects to Postgres using the [`DATABASE_URL`](#database_url) connection string, in the format `postgresql://[userspec@][hostspec][/dbname][?paramspec]`.

The `userspec` section of this connection string specifies the database user that Electric connects to Postgres as. This user must have the following permissions.

### Permissions for logical replication mode

In [logical replication mode](#logical-replication-mode), the database user must have [`LOGIN` and `SUPERUSER`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/role-attributes.html#ROLE-ATTRIBUTES). You can create a user with these permissions using, e.g.:

```sql
CREATE ROLE electric
  WITH LOGIN
       PASSWORD '...'
       SUPERUSER;
```

### Permissions for direct writes mode

In [direct writes mode](#direct-writes-mode), the database user must have `LOGIN`, `REPLICATION` and then either `ALL` on the database and public schema or at a minimum:

- `CONNECT`, `CREATE` and `TEMPORARY` on the database
- `CREATE`, `EXECUTE on ALL` and `USAGE` on the `public` schema

Plus `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES` to grant the same permissions on any new tables in the public schema. For example, to create a user with the necessary permissions:

```sql
CREATE ROLE electric
  WITH LOGIN
    PASSWORD '...'
    REPLICATION;

GRANT ALL
  ON DATABASE '...'
  TO electric;

GRANT ALL
  ON ALL TABLES
  IN SCHEMA public
  TO electric;

ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
  IN SCHEMA public
  GRANT ALL
    ON TABLES
    TO electric;
```

## Migrations proxy

Electric exposes a [Migrations proxy](../usage/data-modelling/migrations.md#migrations-proxy) as a TCP service. This must be secured using `PG_PROXY_PASSWORD` and is exposed on `PG_PROXY_PORT`.

[![Connecting to the migrations proxy over a TCP port](../deployment/_images/tcp-port.png)](../deployment/_images/tcp-port.jpg)

The `PG_PROXY_PORT` supports a special `http` value that allows you to connect to the migrations proxy over a TCP-over-HTTP tunnel. This enables the use of the [Proxy Tunnel](./cli.md#proxy-tunnel). This is a CLI command that tunnels the Migrations proxy connection over the [`HTTP_PORT`](#http_port).

[![Connecting to the migrations proxy using a Proxy tunnel](../deployment/_images/proxy-tunnel.png)](../deployment/_images/proxy-tunnel.jpg)

import PgProxyPassword from './_PG_PROXY_PASSWORD.md'
import PgProxyPort from './_PG_PROXY_PORT.md'


### PG_PROXY_PASSWORD

<EnvVarConfig
    name="PG_PROXY_PASSWORD"
    required={true}
    example="b3aed739144e859a">
  <PgProxyPassword />
</EnvVarConfig>

### PG_PROXY_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="PG_PROXY_PORT"
    defaultValue="65432"
    example="http:65432">
  <PgProxyPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

## Authentication

Electric provides two authentication modes:

1. [secure](#secure-mode) (the default)
2. [insecure](#insecure-mode)

In secure more, `AUTH_JWT_ALG` and `AUTH_JWT_KEY` are required. In insecure mode, all other authentication variables can be omitted.

import AuthMode from './_AUTH_MODE.md'
import AuthJwtNamespace from './_AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE.md'


### AUTH_MODE

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_MODE"
    defaultValue="secure"
    example="insecure">
  <AuthMode />
</EnvVarConfig>

### AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE"
    optional={true}
    example="example">
  <AuthJwtNamespace />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Secure mode

In secure mode, Electric authenticates its replication connections by obtaining a JWT from each client and verifying its validity before allowing data streaming in either direction.

See <DocPageLink path="usage/auth/secure" />

import AuthJwtAlg from './_AUTH_JWT_ALG.md'
import AuthJwtKey from './_AUTH_JWT_KEY.md'
import AuthJwtIss from './_AUTH_JWT_ISS.md'
import AuthJwtAud from './_AUTH_JWT_AUD.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_ALG"
    required={true}
    example="HS512">
  <AuthJwtAlg />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_KEY"
    required={true}
    example="8e4f0...4bec3">
  <AuthJwtKey />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_ISS"
    optional={true}
    example="example.com">
  <AuthJwtIss />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_AUD"
    optional={true}
    example="example.com">
  <AuthJwtAud />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Insecure mode

Insecure mode is designed for development or testing. It supports unsigned JWTs that can be generated anywhere, including on the client, as well as signed JWTs which are accepted with no signature verification.

All other authentication variables (aside from `AUTH_MODE`) can be omitted.

See <DocPageLink path="usage/auth/insecure" /> for more information.

## Telemetry

By default, ElectricSQL collects aggregated, anonymous usage data and sends them to our telemetry service. See <DocPageLink path="reference/telemetry" /> for more information.

### ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY

import ElectricTelemetry from './_ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY"
    defaultValue="enabled"
    example="disabled">
  <ElectricTelemetry />
</EnvVarConfig>

Commit message:

Add the "role attribute" qualifier where appropriate

docs/api/service.md, after:

---
title: Sync service
description: >-
  Runtime configuration options for the Electric sync service.
sidebar_position: 20
---

The Electric sync service is an Elixir application that manages [active-active replication](/docs/intro/active-active) between your Postgres database and your [local apps](/docs/intro/local-first).

[![Components and connections](../deployment/_images/components-and-connections.png)](../deployment/_images/components-and-connections.jpg)

The main way to run the sync service is using the [official Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/electricsql/electric). See <DocPageLink path="usage/installation/service" /> for more instructions.

Configuration options are passed as environment variables, e.g.:

```shell
docker run \
    -e "DATABASE_URL=postgresql://..." \
    -e "LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST=..." \
    -e "PG_PROXY_PASSWORD=..." \
    -e "AUTH_JWT_ALG=HS512" \
    -e "AUTH_JWT_KEY=..." \
    -p 5133:5133 \
    -p 5433:5433 \
    electricsql/electric
```

This page documents all the configuration options, including the:

- [core config](#core-config) of `DATABASE_URL`, `HTTP_PORT`, etc.
- [write-to-PG mode](#write-to-pg-mode) with associated networking and [database&nbsp;user&nbsp;permissions](#database-user-permissions)
- [migrations proxy](#migrations-proxy), [authentication](#authentication) and [telemetry](#telemetry)

:::info
For a longer form description of how to successfully deploy the sync service and what needs to connect where, see <DocPageLink path="deployment/concepts" />.
:::

:::caution A note on ports
Your configuration options affect the number and type of ports that need to be exposed. You must always expose the [`HTTP_PORT`](#http_port). Your [write-to-PG mode](#write-to-pg-mode) and [migrations proxy](#migrations-proxy) config then determines whether you need to expose up-to two TCP ports: the [`LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT`](#logical_publisher_port) and [`PG_PROXY_PORT`](#pg_proxy_port) respectively.

In development using Docker you usually want to map all the necessary ports to your host network (`-p 5133:5133` and `-p 5433:5433` in the example above).

In production you must make sure your hosting infrastructure exposes the necessary ports and protocols. If not, you can use the workarounds provided in the form of [direct writes mode](#direct-writes-mode) and the [proxy tunnel](#migrations-proxy).

Again, see <DocPageLink path="deployment/concepts" /> for more information.
:::

## Core config

import EnvVarConfig from '@site/src/components/EnvVarConfig'
import DatabaseRequireSsl from './_DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL.md'
import DatabaseUrl from './_DATABASE_URL.md'
import DatabaseUseIpv6 from './_DATABASE_USE_IPV6.md'
import HttpPort from './_HTTP_PORT.md'


Configure how Electric connects to Postgres and exposes its HTTP/WebSocket API.

### DATABASE_URL

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_URL"
    required={true}
    example="postgresql://user:password@example.com:54321/electric">
  <DatabaseUrl />
</EnvVarConfig>

### DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_REQUIRE_SSL"
    defaultValue="true"
    example="false">
  <DatabaseRequireSsl />
</EnvVarConfig>

### DATABASE_USE_IPV6

<EnvVarConfig
    name="DATABASE_USE_IPV6"
    defaultValue="false"
    example="true">
  <DatabaseUseIpv6 />
</EnvVarConfig>

### HTTP_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="HTTP_PORT"
    defaultValue="5133"
    example="8080">
  <HttpPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

## Write-to-PG mode

Electric writes data to Postgres using one of two modes:

1. [logical replication](#logical-replication-mode)
2. [direct writes](#direct-writes-mode)

:::caution
The mode you choose affects your networking config and [database user permissions](#database-user-permissions).
:::

import ElectricWriteToPgMode from './_ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="ELECTRIC_WRITE_TO_PG_MODE"
    defaultValue="logical_replication"
    example="direct_writes">
  <ElectricWriteToPgMode />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Logical replication mode

In `logical_replication` mode, Electric exposes a logical replication publisher service over TCP that speaks the [Logical Streaming Replication Protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/protocol-logical-replication.html).

Postgres connects to Electric on `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST:LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT` and establishes a logical replication subscription to this publisher service. Writes are then streamed in and applied using the logical replication subscription.

```
         | <----------- DATABASE_URL ----------- |
Postgres |                                       | Electric
         | ---- LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST:PORT ---> |
```

:::caution Caution
In logical replication mode:

1. the [database user](#database-user-permissions) that Electric connects to Postgres as must have [`SUPERUSER` role attribute](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/role-attributes.html#ROLE-ATTRIBUTES)
2. Postgres must be able to connect to Electric (i.e.: must be able to establish an outbound TCP connection) on the host and port that you configure

As a result, you must make sure (in terms of networking / firewalls) not only that Postgres is reachable from Electric but also that Electric is reachable from Postgres. And Electric must know its own address, in order to provide it to Postgres when setting up the logical replication publication that allows writes to be replicated into Postgres.
:::

import LogicalPublisherHost from './_LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST.md'
import LogicalPublisherPort from './_LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT.md'

#### LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST

<EnvVarConfig
    name="LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST"
    required={true}
    example="example.com">
  <LogicalPublisherHost />
</EnvVarConfig>

#### LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT"
    defaultValue="5433"
    example="65433">
  <LogicalPublisherPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Direct writes mode

In `direct_writes` mode, Electric writes data to Postgres using a standard interactive client connection. This avoids the need for Postgres to be able to connect to Electric and reduces the permissions required for the database user that Electric connects to Postgres as.

```
Postgres | <----------- DATABASE_URL ----------- | Electric
```

No additional configuration is required for direct writes mode. The `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_HOST` and `LOGICAL_PUBLISHER_PORT` variables are not required and are ignored.

:::info Why are there two modes?
Originally (prior to v0.8) all writes to Postgres were made using logical replication.

In [version 0.8](/blog/2023/12/13/electricsql-v0.8-released#from-superuser-to-supabase), Electric added direct writes mode to reduce the database user permissions required and increase compatibility with Postgres hosting providers.

In future, we may deprecate logical replication and consolidate on direct writes. However, logical replication may have performance advantages and, for now, we've kept both modes available while direct writes mode gains maturity and we learn more about the operational characteristics of both modes.
:::

## Database user permissions

The Electric sync service connects to Postgres using the [`DATABASE_URL`](#database_url) connection string, in the format `postgresql://[userspec@][hostspec][/dbname][?paramspec]`.

The `userspec` section of this connection string specifies the database user that Electric connects to Postgres as. This user must have the following permissions.

### Permissions for logical replication mode

In [logical replication mode](#logical-replication-mode), the database user must have [`LOGIN` and `SUPERUSER` role attributes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/role-attributes.html#ROLE-ATTRIBUTES). You can create a user with these attributes using, e.g.:

```sql
CREATE ROLE electric
  WITH LOGIN
       PASSWORD '...'
       SUPERUSER;
```

### Permissions for direct writes mode

In [direct writes mode](#direct-writes-mode), the database user must have `LOGIN`, `REPLICATION` and then either `ALL` on the database and public schema or at a minimum:

- `CONNECT`, `CREATE` and `TEMPORARY` on the database
- `CREATE`, `EXECUTE on ALL` and `USAGE` on the `public` schema

Plus `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES` to grant the same permissions on any new tables in the public schema. For example, to create a user with the necessary permissions:

```sql
CREATE ROLE electric
  WITH LOGIN
    PASSWORD '...'
    REPLICATION;

GRANT ALL
  ON DATABASE '...'
  TO electric;

GRANT ALL
  ON ALL TABLES
  IN SCHEMA public
  TO electric;

ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
  IN SCHEMA public
  GRANT ALL
    ON TABLES
    TO electric;
```

## Migrations proxy

Electric exposes a [Migrations proxy](../usage/data-modelling/migrations.md#migrations-proxy) as a TCP service. This must be secured using `PG_PROXY_PASSWORD` and is exposed on `PG_PROXY_PORT`.

[![Connecting to the migrations proxy over a TCP port](../deployment/_images/tcp-port.png)](../deployment/_images/tcp-port.jpg)

The `PG_PROXY_PORT` supports a special `http` value that allows you to connect to the migrations proxy over a TCP-over-HTTP tunnel. This enables the use of the [Proxy Tunnel](./cli.md#proxy-tunnel). This is a CLI command that tunnels the Migrations proxy connection over the [`HTTP_PORT`](#http_port).

[![Connecting to the migrations proxy using a Proxy tunnel](../deployment/_images/proxy-tunnel.png)](../deployment/_images/proxy-tunnel.jpg)

import PgProxyPassword from './_PG_PROXY_PASSWORD.md'
import PgProxyPort from './_PG_PROXY_PORT.md'


### PG_PROXY_PASSWORD

<EnvVarConfig
    name="PG_PROXY_PASSWORD"
    required={true}
    example="b3aed739144e859a">
  <PgProxyPassword />
</EnvVarConfig>

### PG_PROXY_PORT

<EnvVarConfig
    name="PG_PROXY_PORT"
    defaultValue="65432"
    example="http:65432">
  <PgProxyPort />
</EnvVarConfig>

## Authentication

Electric provides two authentication modes:

1. [secure](#secure-mode) (the default)
2. [insecure](#insecure-mode)

In secure more, `AUTH_JWT_ALG` and `AUTH_JWT_KEY` are required. In insecure mode, all other authentication variables can be omitted.

import AuthMode from './_AUTH_MODE.md'
import AuthJwtNamespace from './_AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE.md'


### AUTH_MODE

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_MODE"
    defaultValue="secure"
    example="insecure">
  <AuthMode />
</EnvVarConfig>

### AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_NAMESPACE"
    optional={true}
    example="example">
  <AuthJwtNamespace />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Secure mode

In secure mode, Electric authenticates its replication connections by obtaining a JWT from each client and verifying its validity before allowing data streaming in either direction.

See <DocPageLink path="usage/auth/secure" />

import AuthJwtAlg from './_AUTH_JWT_ALG.md'
import AuthJwtKey from './_AUTH_JWT_KEY.md'
import AuthJwtIss from './_AUTH_JWT_ISS.md'
import AuthJwtAud from './_AUTH_JWT_AUD.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_ALG"
    required={true}
    example="HS512">
  <AuthJwtAlg />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_KEY"
    required={true}
    example="8e4f0...4bec3">
  <AuthJwtKey />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_ISS"
    optional={true}
    example="example.com">
  <AuthJwtIss />
</EnvVarConfig>

<EnvVarConfig
    name="AUTH_JWT_AUD"
    optional={true}
    example="example.com">
  <AuthJwtAud />
</EnvVarConfig>

### Insecure mode

Insecure mode is designed for development or testing. It supports unsigned JWTs that can be generated anywhere, including on the client, as well as signed JWTs which are accepted with no signature verification.

All other authentication variables (aside from `AUTH_MODE`) can be omitted.

See <DocPageLink path="usage/auth/insecure" /> for more information.

## Telemetry

By default, ElectricSQL collects aggregated, anonymous usage data and sends them to our telemetry service. See <DocPageLink path="reference/telemetry" /> for more information.

### ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY

import ElectricTelemetry from './_ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY.md'


<EnvVarConfig
    name="ELECTRIC_TELEMETRY"
    defaultValue="enabled"
    example="disabled">
  <ElectricTelemetry />
</EnvVarConfig>
